0.1.0
=====

Prelude
-------

qiskit-ibm-runtime is a new Python API client for accessing the quantum
programs, systems and simulators at IBM Quantum via the Qiskit Runtime
Service.

This new package is built upon the work already done in
qiskit.providers.ibmq.runtime module in the qiskit-ibmq-provider package
and replaces it going forward. The runtime module in
qiskit-ibmq-provider package is now deprecated.

qiskit-ibm-runtime is not included as part of Qiskit meta package and
thereby you have to install it separately using
``pip install qiskit-ibm-runtime``.

New Features
------------

-  ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.least_busy()`` will now allow
   you find the least busy backend.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  qiskit-ibm-runtime package no longer uses the $HOME/.qiskit/qiskitrc
   file used by qiskit-ibmq-provider to save credentials. Credentials
   are now stored in a JSON format in $HOME/.qiskit/qiskit-ibm.json file
   when you use ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.save_account()``
   method.

   You can now save multiple credentials and give an optional name for
   each credential.

-  Qiskit Runtime service is accessible using an IBM Quantum (legacy)
   account or an IBM Cloud (cloud) account. qiskit-ibm-runtime enables
   you to connect to either of these accounts:

   .. code:: python

      # Legacy
      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import IBMRuntimeService
      service = IBMRuntimeService(auth="legacy", token="abc")

      # Cloud
      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import IBMRuntimeService
      service = IBMRuntimeService(auth="cloud", token="abc", instance="IBM Cloud CRN or Service instance name")

-  `qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend>`__
   class now implements the ``qiskit.providers.BackendV2`` interface and
   provides flatter access to the configuration of a backend, for
   example:

   .. code:: python

      # BackendV1:
      backend.configuration().n_qubits

      # BackendV2:
      backend.num_qubits

   Only breaking change when compared to BackendV1 is backend.name is
   now an attribute instead of a method.

   Refer to the
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend>`__
   class doc string for a list of all available attributes.

-  If you used qiskit.providers.ibmq.AccountProvider.get_backend method
   (for example, ``provider.get_backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")``) in the
   qiskit-ibmq-provider package, it’s equivalent method in this new
   package is ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.backend()``:

   .. code:: python

      service = IBMRuntimeService()
      backend = service.backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")

-  It is now optional to specify a hub/group/project upfront when
   connecting to the legacy IBM Quantum account. The hub/group/project
   is selected in the following order.

      -  hub/group/project if passed via ``instance`` parameter when
         initializing ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService``
      -  the specific hub/group/project required by the backend
         specified when calling
         ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.run()``
      -  the default set previously via
         ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.save_account()``
      -  a premium hub/group/project in your account
      -  open access hub/group/project

-  It is now optional to specify backend_name in options when executing
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.run()`` method when using
   cloud runtime (IBM Cloud only). The server will automatically pick a
   backend and return the name.

-  qiskit.providers.ibmq.runtime.IBMRuntimeService.logout method in
   qiskit-ibmq-provider which was used to clear authorization cache on
   the server has been removed.

-  Python 3.6 has reached end of life and will no longer be supported in
   the new qiskit-ibm-runtime package.

-  qiskit.providers.ibmq.runtime.IBMRuntimeService.run_circuits method
   in qiskit-ibmq-provider has been removed and will be replaced by the
   ``Sampler`` primitive program.

-  ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.run()`` method now accepts
   runtime execution options as
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeOptions``
   class in addition to already supported Dict. backend_name, image and
   log_level are the currently available options.

-  Final result is also streamed now after interim results when you
   specify a ``callback`` to
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.run()`` or
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.stream_results() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.30/runtime-job#stream_results>`__.
