0.11.0
======

New Features
------------

-  When retrieving a job with
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMRuntimeService.job()`` the ``params`` will no
   longer be returned from the API. They will instead be loaded loazily
   when they are actually needed in
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.inputs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#inputs>`__.

-  Added warning when the backend is not active in
   QiskitRuntimeService.run.

-  Support input of type ``CouplingMap`` when given as simulator option.
   Previously we supported, for example:

   .. code:: python

      options.simulator = {"coupling_map": [[0, 1], [1, 0]]}

   Now we also support the following:

   .. code:: python

      options.simulator = {"coupling_map": CouplingMap.from_line(10)}

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  A default session is no longer open for you if you pass a backend
   name or backend instance to
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/sampler>`__ or
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   constructors. The primitive will instead run without a session. In
   addition, you should now use the ``backend`` parameter to pass a
   backend name or instance instead of the ``session`` parameter (which
   can continue to be used to pass a session).

-  The first parameter of the
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/sampler>`__ and
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   constructors is now ``backend`` instead of ``session``.

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  Passing a backend name or backend instance to the ``session``
   parameter when initializing a
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/sampler>`__ or
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   has been deprecated. Please use the ``backend`` parameter instead.
   You can continue to pass a session using the ``session`` parameter.
