0.12.0
======

New Features
------------

-  Added a ``global_service``, so that if the user defines a
   QiskitRuntimeService, it will be used by the primitives, even if the
   service is not passed to them explicitly. For example:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Sampler
      service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum")
      # Sampler._service field will be initialized to ``service``
      sampler = Sampler(backend="ibmq_qasm_simulator")

-  Added a new method,
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.instances() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#instances>`__
   that returns all instances(hub/group/project) the user is in. This is
   only for the ``ibm_quantum`` channel since the ``ibm_cloud`` channel
   does not have multiple instances.

-  Added validations for options on the second level of the dict, i.e.,
   for each of resilience, simulator, execution, and transpilation,
   check that their options are supported. Otherwise throw an exception.

-  There is a new parameter, ``channel_strategy`` that can be set in the
   initialization of
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service>`__
   or saved in
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.save_account() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#save_account>`__.
   If ``channel_strategy`` is set to ``q-ctrl``, all jobs within the
   service will use the Q-CTRL error mitigation strategy.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  Circuits and other input parameters will no longer be automatically
   stored in runtime jobs. They can still be retrieved with
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.inputs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#inputs>`__.


Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  The ``noise_amplifier`` resilience options is deprecated. After the
   deprecation period, only local folding amplification will be
   supported. Refer to https://github.com/qiskit-community/prototype-zne
   for global folding amplification.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  When running on channel “ibm_cloud”, it is possible not to specify
   the backend. In this case, the system selects one of the available
   backends for this service. Issue #625
   https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/issues/625 reported that
   the the backend returned by ``job.backend()`` was not always the
   actual backend on which the job was run. This PR fixes this bug.

-  Fixes a race condition in the test test_cancel_running_job() in
   test_job.py where job cancellation could not be performed. Refer to
   #1019 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/issues/1019>\_
   for more details.

-  Previously we added validation when jobs were run to make sure the
   number of circuits was not greater than the maximum for that backend,
   ``backend.max_circuits``. This limit isn’t actually necessary for
   primtives run from within a session.
