0.13.0
======

New Features
------------

-  Added a new method,
   `details() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session#details>`__ that returns
   information about a session, including: maximum session time, active
   time remaining, the current state, and whether or not the session is
   accepting jobs.

   Also added `status() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session#status>`__,
   which returns the current status of the session.

-  At initialization, if not passed in directly, the default
   ``instance`` selected by the provider will be logged at the “INFO”
   level. When running a job, if the backend selected is not in the
   default instance but in a different instance the user also has access
   to, that instance will also be logged.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session.close() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session#close>`__
   has been updated to mark a ``Session`` as no longer accepting new
   jobs. The session won’t accept more jobs but it will continue to run
   any queued jobs until they are done or the max time expires. This
   will also happen automatically when the session context manager is
   exited. When a session that is not accepting jobs has run out of jobs
   to run, it’s immediately closed, freeing up the backend to run more
   jobs rather than wait for the interactive timeout.

   The old close method behavior has been moved to a new method,
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session.cancel() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session#cancel>`__,
   where all queued jobs within a session are cancelled and terminated.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fixed a bug where ``shots`` passed in as a numpy type were not being
   serialized correctly.

-  Fixed a bug in
   `target_history() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend#target_history>`__
   where the datetime parameter was not being used to retrieve backend
   properties from the specified date.
