0.15.0
======

New Features
------------

-  A new module
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider <fake_provider#module-qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider>`__,
   has been added to provide access to a series of fake backends derived
   from snapshots of IBM Quantum devices. This functionality was
   originally provided by the ``qiskit.providers.fake_provider`` module,
   but will soon be deprecated in favor of
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider <fake_provider#module-qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider>`__.

   The snapshots provided by the fake backends are useful for local
   testing of the transpiler and performing local noisy simulations of
   the system before running on real devices. Here is an example of
   using a fake backend for transpilation and simulation:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
      from qiskit import transpile
      from qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider import FakeManilaV2

      # Get a fake backend from the fake provider
      backend = FakeManilaV2()

      # Create a simple circuit
      circuit = QuantumCircuit(3)
      circuit.h(0)
      circuit.cx(0,1)
      circuit.cx(0,2)
      circuit.measure_all()

      # Transpile the ideal circuit to a circuit that can be directly executed by the backend
      transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend)

      # Run the transpiled circuit using the simulated fake backend
      job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
      counts = job.result().get_counts()

-  Added support for ``backend.run()``. The functionality is similar to
   that in ``qiskit-ibm-provider``.

-  An error will be raised during initialization if ``q-ctrl`` is passed
   in as the ``channel_strategy`` and the account instance does not have
   ``q-ctrl`` enabled.

-  Removed storing result in ``RuntimeJob._results``. Instead retrieve
   results every time the ``results()`` method is called.

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  Usage of the ``~/.qiskit/qiskitrc.json`` file for account information
   has been deprecated. Use ``~/.qiskit/qiskit-ibm.json`` instead.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fixed an issue where canceled and failed jobs would return an invalid
   result that resulted in a type error, preventing the actual error
   from being returned to the user.

-  A warning will be raised at initialization if the DE environment is
   being used since not all features are supported there.

-  The ``backend`` parameter in
   `from_id() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session#from_id>`__ is being
   deprecated because sessions do not support multiple backends.
   Additionally, the ``service`` parameter is no longer optional.

-  The ``circuit_indices`` and ``observable_indices`` run inputs for
   `Estimator <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator>`__ and
   `Sampler <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler>`__ have been completely
   removed.

Other Notes
-----------

-  Added migration code for running ``backend.run`` in
   qiskit_ibm_runtime instead of in qiskit_ibm_provider.
