0.20.0
======

New Features
------------

-  Add ``dd_barrier`` optional input to
   `PadDynamicalDecoupling <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.transpiler.passes.scheduling.PadDynamicalDecoupling>`__
   constructor to identify portions of the circuit to apply dynamical
   decoupling (dd) on selectively. If this string is contained in the
   label of a barrier in the circuit, dd is applied on the delays ending
   with it (on the same qubits); otherwise, it is not applied.

-  Python 3.12 is now supported.

-  Sessions will now be started with a new ``/sessions`` endpoint that
   allows for different execution modes. Batch mode is now supported
   through ``Batch``, and `Session <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session>`__
   will work the same as way as before. Please see
   `run/sessions <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/sessions>`__ for more information.

   Note that ``Session`` and ``Batch`` created from
   ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` prior to this release will no longer be
   supported after March 31, 2024. Please update your
   ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` version as soon as possible before this date.

   Also note that using simulators with sessions is no longer supported.
   Users can still start sessions with simulators without any issues but
   a session will not actually be created. There will be no session ID.

-  Sessions started with
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend.open_session() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend#open_session>`__
   will use the new ``/sessions`` endpoint.

   The sessions functionality will not change but note that
   ``backend.run()`` sessions prior to this release will no longer be
   supported after March 31, 2024. Please update your
   ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` version as soon as possible before this date.

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  Circuits that do not match the target hardware definition will no
   longer be supported after March 1, 2024. See the transpilation
   documentation (`transpile <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/transpile>`__) for instructions to
   transform circuits and the primitive examples
   (`run/primitives-examples <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/primitives-examples>`__) to see this
   coupled with operator transformations.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fix assignment of instruction durations when scheduling circuits with
   control flow. Prior to this fix, the indices for instructions on
   inner blocks were not mapped to the physical indices in the outer
   dag.

Other Notes
-----------

-  The ``InstructionDurations`` durations input is now also required for
   the constructor of ``PadDelay``.
