0.24.0 (2024-06-10)
===================

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

- ``name`` will now be a required parameter in 
  `backend() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService#backend>`__.
  ``backend()`` will no longer return the first backend out of all backends if ``name`` is not provided. (`1147 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1147>`__)
- After the removal of custom programs, the following methods are being deprecated and renamed.
  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.run` is deprecated and will be replaced by a private method
  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService._run`.

  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session.run` is deprecated and will be replaced by a private method
  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session._run`.

  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.program_id` is deprecated and will be replaced by
  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.primitive_id`. (`1238 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1238>`__)
- The ``backend`` argument in `Sampler <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/get-started-with-primitives#3-initialize-the-qiskit-runtime-sampler>`__ 
  and `Estimator <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/get-started-with-primitives#3-initialize-qiskit-runtime-estimator>`__ has been deprecated. 
  Please use ``mode`` instead.
  The ``session`` argument in `Sampler <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/get-started-with-primitives#3-initialize-the-qiskit-runtime-sampler>`__ 
  and `Estimator <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/get-started-with-primitives#3-initialize-qiskit-runtime-estimator>`__ has also been deprecated. 
  Please use ``mode`` instead. (`1556 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1556>`__)
- :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.get_backend` is deprecated. Please
  :meth:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.backend` use instead.
  The V1 fake backends, :class:`.FakeBackend`, along with :class:`.FakeProvider` are also
  being deprecated in favor of the V2 fake backends and :class:`.FakeProviderForBackendV2`. (`1689 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1689>`__)
- Specifying options without the full dictionary structure is deprecated. Instead, pass
  in a fully structured dictionary. For example, use ``{'environment': {'log_level': 'INFO'}}``
  instead of ``{'log_level': 'INFO'}``. (`1731 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1731>`__)


New Features
------------

- Related to the execution modes, Sampler and Estimator now include a ``mode`` argument. The ``mode`` parameter
  can be a Backend, Session, Batch, or None. As a result, the backend name has been deprecated, and will
  no longer be supported as a valid execution mode. (`1556 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1556>`__)
- The `ZneOptions.amplifier` option was added, which can be one of these strings:

  * ``"gate_folding"`` (default) uses 2-qubit gate folding to amplify noise. If the noise
    factor requires amplifying only a subset of the gates, then these gates are chosen
    randomly.
  * ``"gate_folding_front"`` uses 2-qubit gate folding to amplify noise. If the noise
    factor requires amplifying only a subset of the gates, then these gates are selected
    from the front of the topologically ordered DAG circuit.
  * ``"gate_folding_back"`` uses 2-qubit gate folding to amplify noise. If the noise
    factor requires amplifying only a subset of the gates, then these gates are selected
    from the back of the topologically ordered DAG circuit. (`1679 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1679>`__)

- When saving an account, there is a new parameter, ``private_endpoint`` that if set to ``True``, allows
  users to connect to a private IBM Cloud API. This parameter can also be used when the service is initialized, for example: 
  ``QiskitRuntimeService(private_endpoint = True)``. (`1699 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1699>`__)
- New opt-in feature to support fractional gates is added to :class:`.IBMBackend`.
  IBM backends currently support dynamic circuits and fractional gates exclusively and
  the two features cannot be used in the same primitive job.
  In addition, some error mitigation protocols you can use with the estimator primitive, 
  such as PEC or PEA, may not support gate twirling with the fractional gates.
  Since Qiskit Target model doesn't represent such constraint,
  we adopted the opt-in approach, where your backend target includes only 
  fractional gates (control flow instructions) when the backend is (not) opted.
  This feature is controlled when you retrieve the target backend from the :class:`.QiskitRuntimeService`.

  .. code-block:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService

      backend = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum").backends(
          "name_of_your_backend", 
          use_fractional_gates=True,
      )[0]

  When the fractional feature is enabled, transpiled circuits may have
  shorter depth compared with the conventional IBM basis gates, e.g. [sx, rz, ecr].

  When you use control flow instructions, e.g. ``if_else``, in your circuit,
  you must disable the fractional gate feature to get executable ISA circuits.
  The choice of the instruction set is now responsibility of users.

  Note that this pattern may be modified or removed without deprecation
  when the IBM backends is updated in future development. (`1715 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1715>`__)
- You can now use the experimental option in :class:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.options.EstimatorOptions` to enable Probabilistic Error Amplification (PEA) error mitigation method for your estimator jobs. (`1728 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1728>`__)
- Qiskit version ``1.1`` is now supported and required. (`1700 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1700>`__)

Upgrade Notes
-------------

- :meth:`.QiskitRuntimeService.backends` now always returns a
  new :class:`IBMBackend` instance even when the same query is used.
  The backend properties and defaults data are retrieved from the server
  for every instance when they are accessed for the first time,
  while the configuration data is cached internally in the service instance. (`1732 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1732>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Fixed an issue where retrieving jobs with 
  `job() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService#job>`__
  and `jobs() <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService#jobs>`__
  would only return ``RuntimeJob`` instances, even if the job was run with a V2 primitive. Now, 
  V2 primitive jobs will be returned correctly as ``RuntimeJobV2`` instances. (`1471 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1471>`__)
- To avoid network disruptions during long job processes, websocket errors will no longer be raised. (`1518 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1518>`__)
- Fixed the combination of ``insert_multiple_cycles`` and ``coupling_map`` options in
  :class:`.PadDynamicalDecoupling`. This combination allows to select staggered 
  dynamical decoupling with multiple sequence cycles in each delay that crosses 
  the threshold set by ``sequence_min_length_ratios``. (`1630 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1630>`__)
- Fixed a serialization issue where decoding job metadata resulted in an error. (`1682 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1682>`__)
- Fixed measurement twirling docstring which incorrectly indicated it's enabled by default for Sampler. (`1722 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1722>`__)
- Fixed nested experimental suboptions override non-experimental suboptions. (`1731 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1731>`__)
- The backend utils method ``convert_to_target`` has been replaced with the 
  `convert_to_target <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.convert_to_target>`__ method from Qiskit.
  This fixes some issues related to target generation and calibration data. (`1600 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1600>`__)
