0.26.0 (2024-07-31)
===================

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

- Passing in a backend as a string into ``Session``, ``Batch``, ``EstimatorV2``, and ``SamplerV2``
  has been deprecated. Use the actual backend object instead. (`1804 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1804>`__)
- Passing a backend as the mode in :class:`SamplerV2` and :class:`EstimatorV2`
  currently runs a job in job mode even if inside of a :class:`Session` or 
  :class:`Batch` context manager. This behavior is deprecated and in a future release
  the the Session/Batch will take precedence. (`1816 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1816>`__)
- Passing in ``service`` in ``Session``, ``Batch``
  has been deprecated. The ``service`` parameter is no longer necessary because the service
  can be extracted from the backend. (`1826 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1826>`__)


New Features
------------

- The methods ``properties``, ``defaults``, ``configuration``,
  and ``check_faulty`` have been added to :class:`FakeBackendV2`. (`1765 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1765>`__)
- If jobs are run in a session created with :meth:`QiskitRuntimeService.Session.from_id` where the 
  session is already closed, the jobs are rejected immediately. (`1780 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1780>`__)
- The input parameters for jobs will no longer be cached. These parameters can include large circuits
  and should not be automatically kept in memory. (`1783 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1783>`__)
- :class:`QiskitRuntimeLocalService` was created to support a local
  testing mode. To avoid having to initialize a separate class, "local"
  has been added as a valid :class:`QiskitRuntimeService` channel.

  .. code-block:: python

      service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="local")

  will return a :class:`QiskitRuntimeLocalService` instance. (`1793 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1793>`__)
- When running jobs on the open plan, there will now be a warning if the limit for the 
  maximum number of pending jobs has been reached. The service will also attempt to wait 
  for the oldest pending jobs to finish running before submitting a new job. (`1794 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1794>`__)
- Added :class:`NoiseLearner` and related functionality, such as
  :class:`NoiseLearnerOptions` and :class:`NoiseLearnerResults`. (`1805 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1805>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Every circuit is checked to be ISA compliant. As part of this check, an error is raised if instructions that are not supported by the backend are detected. Previously, a bug caused some of the instructions to be skipped (those that reside inside bodies of control flow operations). We have fixed the bug in this release. (`1784 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1784>`__)
- Fixed an issue where calling :meth:`IBMBackend.target_history` would cache the backend target and
  then calling :meth:`IBMBackend.target` would incorrectly return that cached target. (`1791 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1791>`__)
- The options validation for checking if ``zne_mitigation`` or ``pec_mitigation`` are set 
  to ``True`` when using other related options has been removed. (`1792 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1792>`__)
- Fixed an issue where users were unable to retrieve job results if 
  the python library ``simplejson`` was installed in their environment. (`1800 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1800>`__)
