0.35.0 (2025-02-04)
===================

Upgrade Notes
-------------

- Python 3.8 reached end-of-life on Oct 7th, 2024. Qiskit SDK dropped support for 3.8 in ``qiskit 1.3``. In the same vein, ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` does not support Python 3.8 anymore. (`2097 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2097>`__)
- Support for ``backend.run()`` has been removed. Refer to the `migration guide <https://github.com/Qiskit/documentation/blob/2d2c2fcad47dd9e7ac1cc6807527dfccd796ea24/docs/migration-guides/qiskit-runtime.mdx>`__
  for instructions to migrate any existing code that uses 
  ``backend.run()`` to the new V2 primitives interface. (`1962 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/1962>`__)
- Parameter expressions with RZZ gates will be checked against the values assigned to them in the PUB. An ``IBMInputValueError`` will be raised if parameter values specified in the PUB make a parameter expression evaluate to an invalid angle (negative, or greater than ``pi/2``). (`2093 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2093>`__)
- When there is a maintenance outage, an appropriate error message will be raised when trying 
  to initialize the ``QiskitRuntimeService``. (`2100 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2100>`__)

New Features
------------

- Jobs run in the local testing mode will now return an instance of a new class, 
  :class:`.LocalRuntimeJob`. This new class inherits from Qiskit's ``PrimitiveJob`` class 
  while adding the methods and properties found in :class:`.BaseRuntimeJob`. This way, running jobs 
  in the local testing mode will be more similar to running jobs on a real backend. (`2057 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2057>`__)
- Two new fake backends, ``FakeFez`` and ``FakeMarrakesh``, have been added. These are 156-qubit Heron devices. (`2112 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2112>`__)
