0.37.0 (2025-03-13)
===================

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

- The :class:`IBMBackend` attributes ``max_shots`` and ``max_experiments``, as well as the property 
  ``max_circuits`` have all been deprecated. These attribute values used to represent the maximum number of
  shots and circuits that could be submitted in one job but that is no longer the case. See 
  the `job limits guide <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/guides/job-limits#job-limits>`__ for details. (`2166 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2166>`__)


New Features
------------

- ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` is now compatible with Qiskit 2.0. This means that classes and methods removed in Qiskit 2.0 have also been 
  removed or handled accordingly. The ``pulse`` and ``channel`` related changes are highlighted below: 

  - ``Channel`` methods in :class:`IBMBackend` have been removed.
  -  The backend configuration class ``PulseBackendConfiguration`` has been removed, so all backends will now be returned as ``QasmBackendConfiguration``.
  - ``PulseDefaults`` (backend defaults) can still be retrieved but they are no longer necessary when creating a backend ``Target``. 

  See the `Pulse migration guide <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/guides/pulse-migration>`__ 
  for details. (`2116 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2116>`__)
- Added a warning when a primitive is initialized outside of a session or batch context manager. 
  In this scenario, the job will run in job mode instead of the session or batch. (`2152 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2152>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Fixed support for custom scheduling transpiler stages with Qiskit 2.x. (`2153 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2153>`__)
- `ConvertConditionsToIfOps <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit/1.4/qiskit.transpiler.passes.ConvertConditionsToIfOps>`__ now correctly runs at
  all optimization levels of the scheduling plugins for dynamic circuits, when using Qiskit 1.x. (`2154 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2154>`__)
- When retrieving jobs with :meth:`~.QiskitRuntimeService.jobs`, there is no way to distinguish 
  between v1 and v2 primitives. Since the v1 primitives were completely removed over 6 months ago 
  in ``0.28.0``, jobs returned from ``jobs()`` will now default to :class:`RuntimeJobV2`. (`2156 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2156>`__)
