0.43 (2025-10-14)
=================

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

- Added a new ``target`` argument to the initializer following transpiler analysis and padding passes: 
  :class:`.ALAPScheduleAnalysis`, :class:`.PadDelay`, :class:`.PadDynamicalDecoupling`, :class:`.BlockBasePadder`.
  This change aligns these passes with the broader Qiskit transpiler architecture, and supersedes the use of the
  ``durations`` argument.

  The :class:`.DynamicCircuitInstructionDurations` class, used in custom scheduling passes, has been deprecated as of
  ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` v0.43. This class was optimized for scheduling operations on Eagle processors, and it 
  has fallen out of date with the current offering of Heron processors. This class was used to define the ```durations`` 
  argument in the scheduling passes listed above 
  (:class:`.ALAPScheduleAnalysis`, :class:`.PadDelay`, :class:`.PadDynamicalDecoupling`, :class:`.BlockBasePadder`). 
  The argument is also deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Users are encouraged to migrate to 
  the ``target`` argument. (`2403 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2403>`__)
- The :class:`RuntimeOptions` class is deprecated. This class was originally only 
  meant to be used with custom programs and is no longer needed. (`2435 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2435>`__)


New Features
------------

- The :mod:`qiskit_ibm_runtime` package has been extended with two new modules: :mod:`.circuit` and 
  :mod:`.circuit.library`. These modules are designed to mirror the structure of the 
  corresponding ``qiskit`` SDK modules, while providing vendor-specific implementations of 
  circuit objects and instructions. 

  The first addition to this new circuit library is the :class:`.MidCircuitMeasure` class. 
  This class enables the creation of instructions that follow the naming convention 
  ``measure_<identifier>``, which are mapped to specific mid-circuit measurement
  hardware instructions matching that pattern. The default name for this instruction is ``"measure_2"``.
   
  
  Example usage::

      from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
      from qiskit_ibm_runtime.circuit import MidCircuitMeasure

      measure_2 = MidCircuitMeasure()
      measure_3 = MidCircuitMeasure("measure_3")
      qc = QuantumCircuit(1, 1)
      qc.append(measure_2, [0], [0])
      qc.append(measure_3, [0], [0])
      qc.measure([0], [0])

  Output::

         ┌────────────┐┌────────────┐┌─┐
      q: ┤0           ├┤0           ├┤M├
         │  Measure_2 ││  Measure_3 │└╥┘
      c: ╡0           ╞╡0           ╞═╩═
         └────────────┘└────────────┘


  The :func:`.convert_to_target` utility has been updated to support an additional ``"instruction_signatures"`` field in 
  backend configuration files (``configuration.json``). This field is intended to represent non-unitary, non-standard instructions 
  reported by the backend and should respect the following schema::

      "instruction_signatures" = [
          {
              "name": "measure_2",
              "num_qubits": 1,
              "num_clbits": 1,
              "parameters": [],
              "return_type": "Bool",
              "description": "An alternative measurement. This can be used as a mid-circuit measurement in a dynamic circuit. ",
          },
          {
              "name": "reset_2",
              "num_qubits": 1,
              "num_clbits": 1,
              "parameters": [],
              "return_type": "Bool",
              "description": "An alternative reset instruction.",
          }
      ]

  In addition to this change, the :func:`.convert_to_target` function now accepts a ``custom_name_mapping`` argument
  and exposes the ``add_delay`` and ``filter_faulty`` flags from the original core implementation. (`2316 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2316>`__)

- :meth:`.QiskitRuntimeService.backends` and :meth:`.QiskitRuntimeService.backend` have a new parameter, 
  ``calibration_id``. This custom calibration will be used for constructing the target and also used 
  when executing primitive jobs on the backend. (`2432 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2432>`__)
- Added a new function :meth:`.visualization.draw_circuit_schedule_timing` to plot circuit schedule 
  timing data returned in job result metadata. This is currently a beta feature and requires the 
  ``"scheduler_timing"`` experimental option to be set to ``True``, as shown below. This is 
  currently only available to ``Sampler`` jobs.

  .. code-block:: python

      sampler = SamplerV2(backend)
      sampler.options.experimental = { 
          "execution": {
              "scheduler_timing": True,
          },
      }

  The circuit schedule data can then be accessed from the job's result metadata as follows:

  .. code-block:: python

      job_result: SamplerPubResult = job.result()
      circuit_schedule = job_result[0].metadata["compilation"]["scheduler_timing"]
      circuit_schedule_timing = circuit_schedule["timing"]

  This function uses the new :class:`CircuitSchedule` class to load, parse, preprocess, 
  and trace the data for plotting using a Plotly supported interface. (`2328 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2328>`__)
- Virtual private endpoints for IBM Quantum Platform are now supported.
  Learn more in our `virtual private endpoints guide <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/guides/virtual-private-endpoints>`__. (`2367 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2367>`__)
- It is now possible to retrieve the job tags of a job without having to actually fetch 
  the job with :meth:`.QiskitRuntimeService.job`. (`2420 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2420>`__)
- The :class:`.~ConvertISAToClifford` pass now supports Cliffordization of circuits containing fractional gates. (`2427 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2427>`__)
