0.47.0 (2026-05-12)
===================

New Features
------------

- Added the `Executor` and `QuantumProgram` classes, which allow taking full advantage of the set of
  capabilities offered by the `Samplomatic <https://github.com/Qiskit/samplomatic>_` package.
- Added the `NoiseLearnerV3` class to learn the noise of instructions that contain annotated boxes.
- Added a script to fetch configuration and properties of a real backend.
  - One new fake backend, ``FakeKingston``, has been added. This is a 156-qubit Heron r2 device. (`2711 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2711>`__)
- The interactions with the IBM Cloud Platform services (which happen during
  ``QiskitRuntimeService`` instantation, with the service names ``global_search``,
  ``global_catalog`` and ``resource_controller``) now adhere to the
  `IBM Cloud SDK configuration mechanisms
  <https://github.com/IBM/ibm-cloud-sdk-common/blob/main/README.md#using-external-configuration>`_,
  allowing for custom configuration to be passed via environment variables or credential files. (`2712 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2712>`__)
- Added :func:`.draw_chunk_timings` to :mod:`qiskit_ibm_runtime.visualization` for plotting
  the execution timing of one or more instances of the new chunk timings container class,
  :class:`.ChunkTiming`, on an interactive barchart. A convenience :meth:`.ChunkTiming.draw`
  method is also available for the single-result case via ``job.result().timing.draw()``. (`2727 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2727>`__)
- Building on top of the fake backend snapshot script introduced in ``#2711``,
  the script now also generates ``__init__.py`` and ``fake_<backend_name>.py``
  files for each backend, and adds a new ``-a``/``--account`` argument
  to select a named account when fetching backend data from different cloud
  regions (for example, `us-east` versus `eu-de`).

  Using this updated script, the following missing fake backends have been added:
  ``FakeAachen``, ``FakeBerlin``, ``FakeBoston``, ``FakeBrussels``,
  ``FakeMiami``, ``FakePittsburgh``, and ``FakeStrasbourg``. (`2736 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2736>`__)


Upgrade Notes
-------------

- The ``RuntimeJobV2.result()`` and ``RuntimeJobV2.wait_for_final_state()`` methods now accept an
  optional ``poll_interval`` parameter, that allows customizing the interval between requests to the
  service. The default is now ``0.5`` seconds for non-session job, and ``0.1`` seconds for session
  jobs. (`2762 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2762>`__)


Deprecation Notes
-----------------

- The Python package ``extras`` have been refactored:

  * ``common`` and ``documentation`` are deprecated, and will be removed in ``v0.48``.
  * ``performance`` has been introduced, for optional non-developer dependencies that provide
    additional performance or functionality.
  * the development dependencies now have finer granularity (``style``, ``style_local``, ``test``,
    ``doc``), with the ``dev`` extra continuing to allow a full development suite to be installed. (`2707 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2707>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- The ``proxies`` and ``ssl_verification`` arguments for ``QiskitRuntimeService``
  are nowpropagated to the underlying HTTP requests to ```GlobalSearchV2``,
  ``GlobalCatalogV1``, and ``IAMAuthenticator`` services, allowing to instantiate
  ``QiskitRuntimeService`` correctly when using a proxy. (`2592 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2592>`__)
- Added ability to specify ``calibration_id`` and ``use_fractional_gates`` when initializing a session from a ``session_id``.
  This fixes known bugs, namely that instantiating a ``Session`` object via ``from_id`` does not preserve the value of
  ``calibration_id`` set during the initial instantiation of the original ``Session`` nor the the value of ``use_fractional_gates``
  set during the initial instantiation of the backend. (`2652 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2652>`__)
- ``NoiseLearner.run()`` now correctly supports generators, ``map``,
  ``filter``, generator expressions, and other single-pass iterators.
  Previously these were exhausted after the initial type check, causing
  jobs to be submitted with zero circuits. (`2759 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/pull/2759>`__)
