0.5.0
=====

Prelude
-------

This release leverages the API and Queue enhancements to become more
runtime session aware. As a result when using the primitives (sampler
and estimator), runtime jobs in the same session will skip to the front
of the queue, thereby speeding up the runtime session, once it has
started.

New Features
------------

-  The ``service`` object which is an instance of
   `QiskitRuntimeService <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service>`__
   class can now be accessed from
   `IBMBackend <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend>`__ class using the
   ``service`` property.

   Ex:

   .. code:: python

      backend = service.get_backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
      backend.service  # QiskitRuntimeService instance used to instantiate the backend

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  `jobs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#jobs>`__ has two
   new parameters, ``created_after`` and ``created_before``. These can
   be used to filter jobs by creation date in local time.

-  The parameters ``circuit_indices`` and ``observable_indices`` when
   calling ``estimator`` are now deprecated and will be removed in a
   future release. You can now pass either indices or objects using the
   ``circuits`` and ``observables`` parameters.

   Ex:

   .. code:: python

      with Estimator(
        circuits=[qc1, qc2],
        observables=[H1, H2, H3],
        service=service,
        options=options
      ) as estimator:
        # pass circuits and observables as indices
        result = estimator(circuits=[0, 1], observables=[0, 1], parameter_values=[theta1, theta2])

        # pass circuits and observables as objects
        result = estimator(circuits=[qc1, qc2], observables=[H1, H3], parameter_values=[theta1, theta3])

-  The parameters ``circuit_indices`` and ``observable_indices`` when
   calling ``estimator`` are now deprecated and will be removed in a
   future release. You can now pass either indices or objects using the
   ``circuits`` and ``observables`` parameters.

   Ex:

   .. code:: python

      with Sampler(
        circuits=[qc1, qc2],
        service=service,
        options=options
      ) as sampler:
        # pass circuits as indices
        result = sampler(circuits=[0, 1], parameter_values=[theta1, theta2])

        # pass circuit as objects
        result = sampler(circuits=[qc1, qc2], parameter_values=[theta2, theta3])

-  The ``session_id``, which is the Job ID of the first job in a runtime
   session can now be used as a filter in
   `jobs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#jobs>`__ with
   the parameter ``session_id``.

-  `run() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.29/qiskit-runtime-service#run>`__ now
   supports a new parameter, ``job_tags``. These tags can be used when
   filtering jobs with
   `jobs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#jobs>`__.

-  `run() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.29/qiskit-runtime-service#run>`__ now
   supports a new parameter, ``max_execution_time``, which can be used
   to override the default program maximum execution time. It should be
   less than or equal to the program maximum execution time.

-  `jobs() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service#jobs>`__ has a
   new parameter, ``descending``. This parameter defaults to ``True``,
   where jobs will be returned in descending order based on creation
   date.

-  ``RuntimeJobTimeoutError`` is now raised when the ``timeout`` set in
   `result() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#result>`__ or
   `wait_for_final_state() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#wait_for_final_state>`__
   expires.

-  When initializing
   `QiskitRuntimeService <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service>`__
   and an invalid token is used, ``IBMNotAuthorizedError`` will be
   raised instead of ``RequestsApiError``.

-  ``IBMSampler`` class which was deprecated earlier is now removed. Use
   `Sampler <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/sampler>`__ class going forward.

-  `qubit_properties() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend#qubit_properties>`__
   will now return a sub class of ``QubitProperties`` called
   ``IBMQubitProperties`` and will expose anharmonicity in addition to
   the t1, t2 and frequency already exposed by the ``QubitProperties``
   class.
