0.7.0
=====

New Features
------------

-  ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`` class now accepts arbitrary keyword
   arguments. This allows users to specify new options to the primitive
   programs without upgrading ``qiskit_ibm_runtime``. These arbitrary
   keyword arguments, however, are not validated.

-  The
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.options.EnvironmentOptions <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/options-environment-options>`__
   class now accepts a ``callback`` parameter. This parameter can be
   used to stream the interim and final results of the primitives.

-  The ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`` class now accepts
   ``max_execution_time`` as a first level option and ``job_tags`` as an
   option under ``environment``.
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeOptions``
   has also been updated to include these two parameters.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  This version of qiskit-ibm-runtime requires qiskit-terra version 0.22
   or higher. The ``requirements.txt`` file has been updated
   accordingly.

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  Qiskit Runtime programs ``torch-train``, ``torch-infer``,
   ``sample-expval``, ``sample-program``, and
   ``quantum_kernal_alignment`` have been deprecated due to low usage.

-  Passing ``instance`` parameter to the
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.run() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.29/qiskit-runtime-service#run>`__
   has been deprecated. Instead, you can pass the ``instance`` parameter
   inside the ``options`` parameter.

-  Passing ``job_tags`` and ``max_execution_time`` as parameters to
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service>`__
   has been deprecated. Please pass them inside ``options``.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fixes the missing section on retrieving jobs in the how-to guide.
