0.7.0rc1
========

Prelude
-------

There are significant changes to how primitives are invoked within a
session, and the options available to the primitives. Please review the
rest of the release notes and the tutorials for full information.

New Features
------------

-  You can now invoke the same or different primitive programs multiple
   times within a session. For example:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Session, Sampler, Estimator, Options
      from qiskit.test.reference_circuits import ReferenceCircuits
      from qiskit.circuit.library import RealAmplitudes
      from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp

      # Initialize account.
      service = QiskitRuntimeService()

      # Set options, which can be overwritten at job level.
      options = Options(optimization_level=1)

      # Prepare inputs.
      bell = ReferenceCircuits.bell()
      psi = RealAmplitudes(num_qubits=2, reps=2)
      H1 = SparsePauliOp.from_list([("II", 1), ("IZ", 2), ("XI", 3)])
      theta = [0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5]

      with Session(service=service, backend="ibmq_qasm_simulator") as session:
          # Submit a request to the Sampler primitive within the session.
          sampler = Sampler(session=session, options=options)
          job = sampler.run(circuits=bell)
          print(f"Sampler results: {job.result()}")

          # Submit a request to the Estimator primitive within the session.
          estimator = Estimator(session=session, options=options)
          job = estimator.run(
              circuits=[psi], observables=[H1], parameter_values=[theta]
          )
          print(f"Estimator results: {job.result()}")

-  A new ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`` class is introduced. This class
   allows you to auto-complete options related to primitive programs.
   For example:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import Session, Sampler, Options
      from qiskit.test.reference_circuits import ReferenceCircuits

      options = Options()
      options.optimization_level = 3  # This can be done using auto-complete.

      with Session(backend="ibmq_qasm_simulator") as session:
        # Pass the options to Sampler.
        sampler = Sampler(session=session, options=options)

        # Or at job level.
        job = sampler.run(circuits=ReferenceCircuits.bell(), shots=4000)

-  `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job>`__
   has a new method
   `metrics() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#metrics>`__. This
   method returns the metrics of a job, which includes timestamp
   information.

-  The
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit-runtime-service>`__
   ``channel`` can now be stored as an environment variable,
   ``QISKIT_IBM_CHANNEL``. This way, when using Runtime Primitives, the
   service does not have to be instantiated manually and can instead be
   created directly from environment variables.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  Raise ``RuntimeJobMaxTimeoutError`` when a job runs for too long so
   that it can be handled appropriately by programs.

-  The experimental parameters ``transpilation_settings``,
   ``resilience_settings``, and ``max_time`` to the
   :class:\`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler and
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   constructors have been removed. You can instead use the
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`` class to specify the settings, and
   ``max_time`` can be specified when starting a new session. For
   example:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import Session, Sampler, Options

      options = Options()
      # This can be done using auto-complete.
      option.optimization_level = 3
      options.resilience_level = 1

      with Session(max_time="2h") as session:
        # Pass the options to Sampler.
        sampler = Sampler(session=session, options=options)

-  Since some accounts have many runtime programs, caching a list of all
   programs on the first call of ``programs()`` has been removed.
   Instead, programs will only be cached up to the ``limit`` given,
   which has a default value of 20.

Deprecation Notes
-----------------

-  Invoking
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/sampler>`__ and
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   as context managers has been deprecated. You can instead use the
   qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session class to create a new session and invoke
   one or more primitives within the session.

   As a result, passing input parameters, such as ``circuits``,
   ``observables``, and ``parameter_values``, as well as ``service`` to
   the constructors of ``Sampler`` and ``Estimator`` has also been
   deprecated. The inputs can now be passed to the ``run()`` method of
   the primitive classes, and ``service`` can be passed to
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/session>`__ when
   starting a new session.

-  Passing ``skip_transpilation`` to the
   :class:\`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler and
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.Estimator <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/estimator>`__
   constructors has been deprecated. You can instead use the
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`` class to specify this option. For
   example:

   .. code:: python

      from qiskit_ibm_runtime import Options

      options = Options()
      # This can be done using auto-complete.
      options.transpilation.skip_transpilation = True

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fixes issue
   `#428 <https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/issues/428>`__ by
   raising the minimum required ``qiskit-terra`` version to ``0.21.0``,
   since latest version of ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` is not compatible with
   ``0.20.0`` or earlier of ``qiskit-terra``.
