0.9.2
=====

New Features
------------

-  Added a new argument called ``session_time`` to the program_run
   method and
   ``qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeOptions``.
   Now values entered by the user for session ``max_time`` will be sent
   to the server side as ``session_time``. This allows users to specify
   different values for session ``max_time`` and ``max_execution_time``.

-  Added the method
   `target_history() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend#target_history>`__.
   This method is similar to
   `target() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/ibm-backend#target>`__. The
   difference is that the new method enables the user to pass a datetime
   parameter, to retrieve historical data from the backend.

Upgrade Notes
-------------

-  Accept all options on given on level 1 and assign them to the
   appropriate hierarchical option type. For example, if the user
   provides ``options = {"shots": 10}`` as input to Sampler/Estimator,
   this will be interpreted as
   ``options = {"execution: {"shots": 10}}``.

-  If a job is returned without a backend, retrieving the backend
   through
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob.backend() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job#backend>`__
   will re-retrieve data from the server and attempt to update the
   backend. Additionally, ``job_id`` and ``backend``, which were
   deprecated attributes of
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.RuntimeJob <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.41/runtime-job>`__
   have now been removed.

-  Added a user warning when the user passes an option that is not
   supported in Options.

Bug Fixes
---------

-  Fixed a bug where the default values for ``optimization_level`` and
   for ``resilience_level`` were not being set correctly.

-  Fixed an issue where if no backend was selected,
   ``optimization_level`` and ``resilience_level`` would default to
   ``None``, causing the job to fail.

-  If an instance is passed in to
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.QiskitRuntimeService.get_backend() <https://quantum.cloud.ibm.com/docs/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/0.29/qiskit-runtime-service#get_backend>`__
   and then the backend is used in a session, all jobs within the
   session will be run from the original instance passed in.

-  Removed additional decomposition of ``BlueprintCircuit``\ s in the
   JSON encoder. This was introduced as a bugfix, but has since been
   fixed. Still doing the decomposition led to possible problems if the
   decomposed circuit was not in the correct basis set of the backend
   anymore.
